Greetings and salutations.
Welcome to this training webinar on best practices in webcasting and videography,
which we've titled Stranger Audio Visual, a Guide for Navigating the Upside-Down of Webcasting.
This is a program with a Stranger Things theme that we will almost certainly be dropping
immediately, so don't get too attached.
My name is Kevin Berg, I'm the production and live events manager at InReach, and today
my colleague and co-presenter Sam Dickinson and I will take you through the fast-paced
fun-filled frenzy that is the wide world of webcasting.
In this, the first of six chapters, we're going to preface this presentation with the
promise that once this webinar ends, any worries or apprehensions you may have had regarding
live streaming will mysteriously and magically vanish.
What we'll cover today is not necessarily a novice approach, but more of a beginner level
to somewhat advanced audio and camera basics in terms of preparation, troubleshooting,
and best practices.
Now I know many of you are no stranger, pun intended, to webcasting live events and have
been doing it in some fashion for years and years and years, but we're here to tell you
that, surprise, you've been doing it wrong, all wrong.
Just kidding, you're doing a fantastic job, but as technology advances, so too can improvements
be made in our methods.
We'll go over some simple program launches using Wirecast, what to tell presenters and
speakers to help the broadcast run smoothly, technical requirements that we recommend including
internet and network connection speeds as it relates to your broadcasting needs, and
lastly, a quick overview of what was addressed so that you can hopefully fare better than
Barbara Holland did as you journey through the upside down of webcasting.
This is our chance to impart some of the tried and true methods and approaches to running
a successful webcast or videography event.
Preparation is key, and you're going to hear me say this a lot, but I cannot stress enough
that if you give yourself plenty of time to set up and test your equipment the day before,
or at least a couple hours before the start of your event, you'll eliminate a lot of the
needless worry that comes from last minute issues.
This is how we like to operate all of our webcasts that we tech, so do your future self
a favor and give yourself plenty of time.
Just as a reminder, if you ever have any issues, feel free to reach out to either of us through
our personal contact information, which you can see on the screen right now if it's an
urgent matter, or you can email live at inreachce.com for other matters relating to live events.
I usually try to be very thorough in these technical demonstrations, but for the sake
of brevity and time considerations today, we will do our best to keep things nice and
concise.
So now, before I turn things over to Sam to walk us through a few basics of camera and
audio setups, let's do a quick rundown of the equipment you'll need to run a webcast.
Keep in mind, this is a fairly comprehensive list.
Technology is so far advanced to the point where there are several smartphone applications
available that allow you to run a webcast entirely from your mobile device.
That being said, while all of these items are not absolutely necessary, we strongly
recommend them because just because you can use a smartphone to run a webcast doesn't
mean that you should use a smartphone to run a webcast.
Let's begin, shall we?
So first off, we're going to need a camera, preferably one with an HDMI port, or at the
very least, composite video and RCA audio, also known as yellow, red, and white, and
XLR audio inputs, and lastly, at least one memory card slot that allows you to record
video to an SD card.
This particular camera is a Panasonic AG-HMC150.
You'll also need a good pair of headphones, a wired or wireless mic system, an HDMI cable,
an HDMI to USB adapter, a soundboard or mixer, audio cables with male XLR to quarter inch
connections, pre-formatted SD cards, backup batteries, a digital audio recorder, a tripod,
an ethernet line, and optional composite video and RCA audio cables, along with a video
audio to USB adapter if you're not using HDMI, and last but not least, a computer with broadcasting
software installed.
We recommend using Wirecast.
It's been our application of choice for more than six years, but you may have something
else that you'd like to try, and that's fine.
So here's the minimum and recommended system requirements for running the latest version
of Wirecast on both Mac and PC.
And in case you missed it, we included a helpful PDF and links in the Materials tab that include
all this information.
You can go check it out at your leisure, so it's there for your reference.
So real quick, I'm going to set up my tripod, loosening the tension screws and extending
the legs to the appropriate height.
You want to be able to have a stable base, but also have your camera position high enough
to shoot above the heads of the audience sitting between you and your subject.
Make sure that if the feet of your tripod have adjustable knobs at the bottom, you position
those to the same height as well.
Once I'm at the height I want, keep the leg locks unlocked, and then I'll use the bubble
level on the head of the tripod to get a nice level shot.
If your tripod does not have a bubble level, you can also use the vertical guides or just
the edge of your frame as it appears in the LCD to line up the vertical line with some
other truly vertical line in your environment, such as like a corner or the edge of a podium,
something like that.
Next, if you haven't already, plug in and power on your camera.
Some of you utilize pan-tilt zoom or PTZ cameras that don't necessarily have this level of
hands-on interaction, but if you're using equipment similar to this, it should be somewhat
familiar.
You want your camera in camera mode.
You want to make sure that your audio inputs are configured correctly, we'll cover this
more in a bit, and that you have the appropriate recording and AV output settings configured
as well.
We'll also go over focus, swipe balancing, f-stop, and all that here in a bit as well,
but for now we'll just want to have an SD card inserted and formatted.
Make sure that you've backed up any content from the card onto another device or hard
drive before you format it, because it will permanently erase the content, so just be
aware of that.
This camera is ready to go, so now we'll connect the video and audio signals to our webcasting
laptop using an HDMI to USB adapter shown here, but you might also use something like
composite video and RCA audio, which also connects to a USB port via an adapter.
I'm doing a full setup here, which from beginning to end takes about 20 minutes.
If you're webcasting from your own studio or facility and have the setup more or less
locked down and ready to go at all times, even better.
Again, most equipment and setups are going to have slight variances, but concept and
the end result will always be the same.
Now that we have everything all set up and ready to go, before we dive into actually
broadcasting, I'm going to have Sam go over some audio and camera troubleshooting.
Sam, take it away.
Hi, my name is Sam Dickinson, and within Reach, we're going to go over some basics for audio
and camera setup.
This will be your soundboard mixer.
You'll have line one, your gain, your equalizer, high and low, and your volume for line one.
You have your main mixer that controls the volume for the entire board, line two and
three and four volume, and your headphones volume.
For these purposes, we're only going to work with line one, and what you want to do is
make sure that each one of these, your gain, your EQ, and your volume, all set on the U
setting.
This is a baseline setting that allows you to adjust the volume as necessary.
When you're ready to go, plug in your XLR cable into line one, and you're always going
to just set up a quarter inch into the left or right out.
Place your line volume and main mix on U, just to give you a baseline, and from here
you're ready to test your audio.
Now, each person, each setup is going to be a little bit different.
You can have a house audio.
For this test, we're going to be using a wireless handheld mic system, and this will be your
camera.
If your camera has an XLR setting or XLR input, we usually set it to input two, which would
be the bottom of this type of camera.
Plug in your XLR cable and make sure that's firmly tightened.
Now, you want to switch it over to the correct input.
We have to change the settings to input two, so make sure that the input two is going to
be receiving all the audio instead of input one.
We turn on our wireless handheld mic, and once we do that, we can see levels in the
viewer screen and also on our mixer.
The main mix volume will raise it, and it will give you a higher output volume.
You can change the volume with the main, and as you can see, it bumps up a lot more.
Now, this is way too loud.
A good baseline for this is to watch the lines right underneath the 1-100th symbol.
If you do see a red line pop up, that means you need to definitely turn your volume down.
So we'll quickly go over a couple of things to be mindful of when preparing audio for
a live webcast or videography-only event.
These are some helpful tips if you find yourself in a bind and are not getting good audio levels
or maybe there's some buzz or hiss or that sort of thing coming through that you want
to get rid of so your audio is nice and clean.
Sticking with our previous setup, we've got the receiver from our wireless handheld microphone
plugged into the XLR input number two on our camera, and as you can hear, I'm doing a sound
check, and you can also see that I'm getting levels indicated by the level meter in the
bottom left corner of the display screen.
So let's say you find that you're not getting levels for some reason.
The first thing I check is to make sure that all my connections are inserted all the way
and are snug.
Next we verify that all of our camera's channels and inputs were directed to input two.
If you have channel one and channel two set to the internal mic setting, this will activate
your camera's onboard built-in mic, which I recommend you avoid at all costs since this
just picks up room audio and all that comes with it, background noises, people talking,
clinking glasses, toilets flushing, slamming doors, etc.
Having both channels set to the same input will ensure that you're getting stereo audio
from the same source.
You'll also want to make sure that whichever input is not being used is turned off.
I recommend playing around with these settings whenever you have free time to familiarize
yourself with your camera.
Since I've got a mic level device plugged into the XLR input, I'll make sure that mic
is selected on the input toggle switch on the front of the camera.
Let's see what happens when I change the input.
Switching from mic to line.
As you can hear, the audio signal is still there, but it's incredibly weak.
Let's change it back.
The audio signal is back and we get levels again.
Again, if your camera setup is different, you might need to do some investigating, but
typically XLR inputs are pretty similar.
Mic and line refer to the voltage of an audio signal.
Wired and wireless microphones are typically connected to mic level inputs, while most
audio devices like mixers and outputs of mic preamps use line level.
A mic level input is typically a female XLR connection, like the one on this camera.
A line level input is typically an RCA jack, a quarter inch phone jack, or a 3.5 millimeter
phone jack.
If you need to connect a line level device to it, it can be done by reducing the voltage
using an attenuator or a direct injection box.
I won't go into all the specifics, since again, your setup may vary, but this is something
that you can be aware of if you're not getting a signal.
Check to see if the input setting needs to be changed from line to mic and vice versa.
Check check check one two.
I realize that my levels are way too high, so let's make an adjustment to them using
the audio level dials on the camera.
Again, this may be a push button or a built-in setting on your camera that requires you to
go through a menu in order to change it, but on this camera, the channel one and channel
two levels can be controlled independently with these dials on the side control panel
near the bottom at the back.
I find that setting both of them in the 10 o'clock position is usually sufficient for
human speech at normal speaking volume.
You can also observe what happens when I turn them down one at a time.
This is channel two.
Check check check one two.
Check check check one two.
And you can see and hopefully hear that there's a noticeable difference when you're only getting
audio out of one channel.
Set them back to the same position and then I'll repeat on channel one, level all the
way down, and finally I'll set them back both to a comfortable volume and avoid getting
the clipping or peaking.
Check check check one two.
Another common problem that happens often is forgetting to check if your microphones
that are battery powered always have fresh or recently changed batteries.
On the wireless receiver, the battery meter is clearly indicated in the display.
However, it is not as visible on my handheld mic.
Sometimes you may need to take apart your mic to check the battery life and while you
have it open, not a bad idea to replace the batteries.
So again, just make sure that prior to the start of your program or whenever you have
a break, check and test your microphones and other audio equipment often and thoroughly.
If you notice that you're getting a buzz or lots of noise in your audio, something similar
to this sound, try to adjust your output gain and see if that has a dampening effect on
the audio.
You can also check your cables and connections, make sure that nothing is hanging out of the
jack half plugged in or your electronics are properly grounded.
Sometimes something as simple as uncrossing an audio and power cable that are too close
in proximity or switching your camera or audio device's power cable to a grounded outlet
will help you get rid of annoying buzz.
If you have a ground lift or a preamp or something that you can introduce into the signal chain,
this may also help to get rid of unwanted audio buzz.
This is something that you might have to play around with well beforehand and we also recommend
monitoring your audio by plugging a set of headphones into your camera's headphone or
AV jack.
This will help you to hear any low frequency noises easier.
Camera basics.
Before we dive into some camera basics, I want to remind everyone that your particular
camera may be different.
So again, just keep in mind that while these functions may be present on your camera, they
might be located in different areas.
So let's start off with getting our tripod set up and making sure that everything is
nice and level.
Again, first thing after getting your tripod legs extended and the camera securely fastened
to the mounting plate, lock the camera in position because we're going to level out
this sucker.
Loosen all your tripod legs, then start moving the legs around until you get the head of
the tripod in a stable and level position.
It may take time and practice to get it right.
Utilize the bubble level that is built into the tripod to assist you.
Once it looks good, secure the fasteners by tightening them into place.
Make sure the tilt knob is tightened just enough to prevent your camera from falling
forward under its own weight, but loose enough so that you can move it fluidly if you need
to.
Framing and composition.
This is pretty fundamental.
Pay attention to how your subjects are positioned in the frame and don't be afraid to make
adjustments if needed.
Obey the rule of thirds, if possible, and position their eye level at about one third
of the height of the frame from the top.
If you're far away from the speaker, try to zoom in on your subjects, but not too close,
but also not too far away that it's difficult to see them.
If they're going to be stationary and seated the entire time, we recommend getting the
image framed up and then take care to not accidentally bump the camera or anything like
that.
Leave some room above their head and on the sides of their body and try to center them
as much as possible.
If the speaker is going to be mobile, I would zoom out slightly and give them a little room
in the frame to lead them as you track along, panning from side to side with their movements.
Here's some examples of proper compositions.
This is good framing.
This is no good.
You get the idea.
Obviously, framing is going to be a whole different consideration.
If you've got a panel of speakers, I would zoom out, get a nice wide shot of the entire
panel so you're not constantly panning back and forth and inducing motion sickness in
your audience.
A cool feature on a lot of cameras is the focus assist.
Using the focus assist on your camera allows you to focus in on a specific point without
jeopardizing your full shot.
Once you focus in, you can focus in properly, then press the focus assist button and there's
your shot ready to go.
It's a quick little tip.
Next is connecting your camera to your computer.
RCA slash composite to USB.
Find the USB on the side of the computer.
Don't use any on the back to plug in your adapters.
Make sure that they're firmly tightened and plugged in properly, red, white, and yellow.
On your camera, input to do the exact same.
Make sure they're firmly in there.
Make sure they're not loose, wiggling, or having any connection issues, which could
cause issues when you're trying to webcast.
Connecting your camera to a computer using an HDMI adapter.
We use a Magewell adapter, USB to HDMI.
We find this to be the most consistent adapter that we've been using.
Again, make sure it's firmly in there.
You'll see two lights on the Magewell to confirm that it's connected properly to the computer.
On the other end, push it into the camera.
Using an HDMI is definitely a lot easier than using RCAs because you're not going to be
using as many cables, plus you're also going to get a higher quality video output from
your camera.
So when it comes to white balancing, this is typically something you'll want to do
once prior to the start of your program during your initial setup.
Manually setting the white balance is not always necessary.
Some cameras may already be set automatically to adjust to the correct white balance, or
if you're pressed for time and haven't had a chance to figure this out, no need to panic.
This is just one of those aesthetic things that will not be a detriment to your recording,
but will definitely enhance the quality of your image and give your video a much more
professional look.
Hopefully the lighting in the room or location you're recording in is not going to be significantly
changing throughout the day.
So be mindful of conditions like large uncovered windows, overhead spotlights, or sudden changes
in the brightness or dimmets of the lights in the room, which may be adjusted from time
to time.
If, let's say, there's a projection screen that's getting washed out and it's difficult
to see by the live audience members, just make sure that the lighting conditions are
configured prior to white balancing so that you can adjust your setting once and hopefully
not have to touch it after that.
So in a nutshell, white balancing is just what it sounds like.
It's getting the white objects in your camera shot to appear their whitest.
You can see in this comparison what an improperly white balance image looks like next to the
same shot after it's been corrected.
If you've ever wondered why skin tones of certain individuals look off, like they're
way too orange or too blue, doing these steps will help to make sure that you get the right hues.
In most situations, you'll hopefully be in a windowless room or one where you have control
over the amount of natural light and artificial illumination.
Get it so that you can see the person or persons who will be speaking clearly through your
camera and so that the projector screen is also well lit and visible.
We're going to make a few adjustments to our camera concerning the iris and white balance.
Depending on your camera, you may be limited in your ability to freely and easily change
these settings, so consult your user manual for these types of camera specifics.
This particular type of camera, which I mentioned before is a Panasonic AG HM-C150, is a midrange
consumer level professional digital video camera.
It has a bunch of dials and switches on the side that look confusing, but really each
has a simple, basic function.
You can make an adjustment to the camera's iris by changing the toggle switch to iris
and then moving the dial up or down to change the f-stop, which will allow you to compensate
for a brighter image if the lighting is dark or a darker image if the conditions are bright.
This is also something that can be set to automatic, to do automatically, which I like
when it comes to white balancing because if there is a slight change in the lighting,
the camera will automatically adjust the image, which is helpful.
As long as you're not constantly changing the lighting and it's constantly having to
compensate, it's not so noticeable as to be distracting.
So once I got my f-stop set where I want it, which is a little bit of glow coming off of
the brightest spot in my image, I will now change the white balance to get the color
tones looking like they should.
There's a few different settings on this camera.
Yours may look similar.
If it's different, don't worry about it.
Just do the best you can.
I'll do a quick rundown of what they mean and then tell you what I think is a good default.
I don't want to dwell on this too much since each room will be set up differently and the
lighting may be inconsistent, so results may vary.
The first setting on the switch is AETW, which stands for Auto Tracing White Balance.
This is generally a fully automatic mode, which tries to guess the correct white balance.
It works by assuming the brightest parts of your image are white objects and will try
to correct the image so that the objects appear true white.
This is what I will typically use in most scenarios.
The end goal here is to get the image you see in your viewfinder to look as close to
what you see with the naked eye.
I set the switch to AETW, then press the white balance button on the front of the camera
and wait for the message in the display to indicate that the white balance is OK.
AWB is Auto White Balance and like Auto Tracing White Balance, it's your camera's best guess
as to what the proper color balance in your image should be depending on the light temperatures.
I'll give an example.
In most indoor settings, you're going to be adjusting for tungsten or fluorescent bulbs
somewhere in the 2,000 to 7,500 Kelvin range.
The fluorescent bulbs in the room I'm recording this image in are probably around 3,200 Kelvin.
I have a preset on this camera for a lighting temperature of 5,600 Kelvin, which is more
in the range of direct natural sunlight and is going to look too dim and too orange for
indoor light.
When I switch it to the 32 Kelvin preset, you can see that it's much closer to the Auto
Tracing White Balance.
They make special white balancing cards that you can purchase from a photography equipment
retailer.
You can also use a blank piece of white paper to assist you.
That works just as well.
Zoom in so that the sheet of paper fills the entire frame.
Switch the setting to AETW or whatever preset you may have on your camera that gives you
a true white image.
If skin tones in the LCD don't seem to match what you see with your eyeball, then make
adjustments accordingly.
You just want to try to get it as close as possible to what you perceive visually and
not have a harsh yellowish tint to your image.
Shutter, Iris, and Gain.
If you're using a camera that has a button or setting to change the shutter speed, I
would turn it off.
As we covered briefly, the Iris controls the size and amount of light coming through the
aperture of your camera.
On this camera, there's a switch that allows you to manually adjust the f-stops and open
or close the aperture using the dial or ring.
You can also turn on the Auto Iris button and it will adjust your f-stop whenever a
change occurs in the image that necessitates more or less light to be exposed to the sensor.
This might be a little distracting, however, so I recommend getting your lighting figured
out and manually setting your exposure to a fixed amount.
If you're working under low lighting conditions and you have your aperture all the way open,
but you're not satisfied with how dark the image might be, you might have an option to
boost or lower the image gain, which increases and decreases the magnitude of amplification
and light sensitivity.
Your camera will probably have automatic or manual functions, or both, for controlling
the gain, and on this camera, there's factory settings which can be changed by positioning
a switch to low, middle, or high gain, which is measured in units of dB or decibels.
Low is equal to 0 dB or no gain.
Middle gain is typically equal to 6 or 9 decibels, which has the effect on your image of adding
the amount of light, and finally, high gain, which adds anywhere between 12 to 18 decibels
or up to 3 times the amount of light to your image.
Now this carries a caveat.
The higher the gain, the more this is going to degrade your image quality by adding noise
and grain to the frame, so keep in mind that this is sort of a last resort if you want
to keep things looking pretty but visible.
Very quick, we'll cover a couple of common camera cautionaries and what to do to fix
an issue.
Camera troubleshooting.
Let's launch into some common problems you might encounter and how best to resolve them.
Number one, let me get this out of the way right off the bat.
The best thing to do is familiarize yourself with the equipment you're using.
Do some research, test out some different setups if something isn't working right,
and make plenty of time for yourself before the start of your program to fix any potential
issues.
We recommend at least one and a half to two hours if possible.
As we covered, make sure to always be recording.
Hopefully your camera is equipped with a memory card slot.
We use 32 or 64 gigabyte SD cards to record all of our programs while simultaneously streaming
audio and video.
This serves as a backup in case the unthinkable happens and your capture device freezes or
your internet goes down or lightning strikes or something disrupts your ability to broadcast
to our media server, you'll always have some sort of a backup recording to use for archiving
purposes.
I feel like it goes without saying, but in our highly developed technological society,
please never forget that technology is our friend, but we are also at its mercy.
Don't compete with technology, try to complete it.
So you'll want to format your SD card, we covered this a little bit ago.
Make sure to start recording and start streaming as soon as possible.
Don't forget to press the record or broadcast buttons.
Try not to run the camera off battery power, instead plug the power cable or adapter into
a surge protected power strip, preferably one that has grounded outlets.
If you do lose power, again, don't panic, capture devices, battery power will allow
you to save your progress and pause until power can be restored.
Obviously you've been recording and broadcasting in Wirecast and you can stop the recording
that is being written to your hard drive and resume once you get power back to your camera.
In case the files being written to your SD card were corrupted, you'll have the hard
drive archive copy as backup.
Make sure to turn off your camera and unplug it from the outlet before removing the SD
card.
Set it aside and replace it with a backup card.
You should always have at least one to two pre-formatted blank cards set aside, ready
to use in the event of an emergency.
SD cards are relatively inexpensive and a decent investment since you can use them.
Copy the contents to a separate storage device like an external hard drive or upload them
to a cloud storage site.
Then you can reformat the cards and reuse them over and over.
For the SD card that you removed, we'll check it out later to see if the files can be repaired
but depending on how often your files automatically increment, some content on the card may have
been lost.
This is why it's crucial to have a few redundancies in place so that the content is not completely
lost.
Most of the time everything will run fine and you won't ever need to resort to using
your backup recordings but in the circumstance that you do, you'll be glad that you put these
preventative measures in place.
From here we'll proceed now to the next chapter which is how to work with Wirecast.
So with Wirecast you have a couple of ways of getting the application up and running.
I'm going to show you the way you're probably used to doing and then show another way to
get your webcast going without always having to launch the application from the event manager.
So as Sam just demonstrated, you can log into the event manager and then search for your
upcoming webcast if it's not showing up on the dashboard.
Once you find it, click on the title and this will bring you to the encoding tab of the
selected program.
If all the viewer URLs are empty, simply click on the encoder selection drop down button
and select Wirecast Typical and those URLs will populate.
Verify that the file name is correct and then click the save button.
Then change the encoder selection back to Wirecast High Quality and click save.
Then launch Wirecast.
This will allow you to save and open a Wirecast profile that is pre-configured with the correct
file name and output settings.
You may still need to add your camera shot, configure the audio source and then add any
break or pre-roll, post-roll elements into the profile, but once everything has been
thoroughly tested and your video and audio is being picked up through the USB dongle
and inputting into Wirecast, go ahead and begin recording and broadcasting and then
open the viewer to make sure that you see the stream coming through for you.
Another way if you happen to experience some weird issues where you're not able to open
a profile on your latest version of Wirecast, locate the application on your capture appliance
by doing a search or adding a shortcut to your desktop.
Open the application and once you have a blank profile open, click on the output settings
button in the menu toolbar.
I'm working on Wirecast 7, so if your version is older, this will be called broadcast and
it looks like this.
You will then be prompted to add a blah blah blah blah blah.
You know what, if you have some detailed questions about the specifics of Wirecast, email Sam
or myself.
We'll set up a call with you to discuss what you can do to change your stream quality,
make sure that your camera shots are properly composed and that you're getting the most
out of your broadcast.
Key things to pay attention to are, number one, set your destination RTMP output to our
media server.
For most of you, it's going to appear as it does on the screen right now.
Number two, the stream name, make sure that the stream name as it appears in this field
matches whatever it is in the video URLs for your program and the event manager and that
there are no capitalized letters.
Number three, encoder selection.
Choose a default H264 preset, one that you're able to stream on your connection.
We'll cover this a little bit more in chapter five.
And number four, make sure that all of your camera shots have been added.
The correct audio source has been assigned to your camera shot.
The aspect ratio has been adjusted accordingly so that it appears the way it should.
It's not stretched out or anything like that in your preview monitor in Wirecast.
You're seeing audio levels in the main audio meter.
All your break and pre-roll videos have been added and that you're not plugging and unplugging
your video adapter into different USB ports without also editing or re-adding your camera
shot in Wirecast.
This could be extremely problematic in Wirecast, especially older versions that may not recognize
your particular adapter despite using different USB ports.
Speaking of older versions of Wirecast, suffice it to say, if you're still on Wirecast 4,
we need to talk.
It's outdated, it's buggy, and it's not going to get any better.
If you've been using it for a while, it's very likely that you've experienced some of
these issues from time to time, typically.
This includes things like video freeze frames, audio and video sources not being recognized
despite installing driver updates, the semi-frequent crashes, and nonspecific errors.
This is because Telestream no longer offers updates or support for older versions of Wirecast,
so it's becoming quickly obsolete.
If you'd like to discuss upgrading to the latest version of Wirecast, or if you have
another method or equipment available to you that you'd like to try out, TriCaster for
example, reach out to Sam or myself and we'd love to explore this further with you and
make sure that you have a device that meets the system requirements and has the appropriate
media inputs and interface to run things without issue.
Real quick before we move on, I just want to showcase a cool feature available in certain
versions of Wirecast that some folks are already well aware of and are utilizing to
great effect.
Here's a look at not the latest version of Wirecast, this is Wirecast 8.
The interface and features are very similar.
If you haven't played around with some of the cool newer features, we encourage you
to do so, otherwise this might be a whole topic unto itself for a future webinar.
We'll just look briefly at the desktop presenter app.
Now you can use it to integrate a live feed of presentation slides and layer it alongside
or inside that of your camera shot, not have to deal with uploading slides to the event
manager or anything like that.
This takes a little preparation, but it involves installing a desktop presenter application
on the computer that is being used to run the presentation materials, as long as the
presentation computer and the computer running Wirecast are connected to the same network,
you can add the desktop of the presentation computer as a shot in Wirecast.
This will allow you to combine your camera shot and the slides being presented into a
single stream without the need for a video switcher or multiple video inputs going into
your broadcast device.
Just something to keep in mind if you want to make your job a little easier, it's pretty
cool.
You can also take mp4 files and drop them into Wirecast if you want video clips with
smoothness and clarity.
You can also assign multiple audio sources to a single shot, I could go on and on for
days about how amazing Wirecast is, but instead we'll just move on.
This chapter of the program is basically just a quick reminder that it never hurts to be
mindful of what you're doing or not doing during a live event.
The hope is that once you get things rolling, you can sit back and relax and let the technology
do what folks way smarter than me have spent millions of dollars designing it to do.
With that in mind, working in a realm where we rely so much on technology to work, we
are always at the mercy of technology.
It's good to have backups and redundancies in place so that if the unpredictable occurs,
lightning strikes, there's a power failure, or you wind up in the upside down like Will
Byers, your recording can be salvaged even if your live event can't.
Shit happens and someone has to deal with it, and that someone is going to be you.
Whether you want it to be or not, you're ultimately the person everyone looks to for answers if
some piece of technology is not functioning properly.
Hopefully you are savvy enough to anticipate any curveballs that might get thrown your
way, but most of this goes without saying, sometimes weird shit happens like all the
time.
Here's a list of things I recommend you keep in mind while webcasting based on situations
I've found myself in over the years.
Number one, always monitor your audio.
Have some headphones on, connect it to your camera or laptop, listen to make sure you're
hearing clear audio whenever someone is talking, check the audio meters on your camera's LCD
screen, or the master audio meter in Wirecast.
You want to be the first person to know if you're having audio issues so that you can
act and correct them immediately.
Number two, always monitor your video.
Like with audio, actively monitor your video while the webcast is happening.
Make sure that the recording is going, that the image is in focus, the lighting is not
blown out or too bright, and that your subject is appearing within the frame.
It happens from time to time.
If you have a mobile presenter who paces around the front of the room and you're not tracking
with them, the camera is locked in a static position, we can still hear the disembodied
voice but the presenter has walked off the screen, and if you're not paying attention
you're just going to be left with a shot of an empty chair or podium.
Number three, always have a USB flash drive handy.
This is great for getting revised or updated presentation materials from the speakers
in case they don't have their own.
Number four, always have a backup SD card.
I recommend recording to SD cards if you have the capability to do so, and it is always
a good idea to have a 32 or 64 gigabyte card that has already been formatted for your camera
ready to go in case you need to utilize it.
Like I said, these are cheap, pick up a few, they're like 10 to 25 bucks, and they will
save your life.
Number five, test your equipment beforehand.
Test the camera, mics, internet speed, your broadcast, slides, your internet speed, video
clips, and oh yeah, your internet speed.
Do a full setup at the location you will be broadcasting from, at least a day before your
scheduled event if possible.
Make sure everything is good to go and that you're not going to walk in the morning of
your webcast and find that your video adapter is not working all of a sudden, oh yeah, and
have a backup video and audio adapter while you're at it.
Number six, expect the unexpected.
Sounds cliche, and it is, for a damn good reason.
I'm sure most of you are familiar with the concept of force majeure, or perhaps even
Murphy's law.
So you know that strange things happen.
You lock down your camera, but mysteriously, it moved.
You lost your video and audio feed and wire cast, and you swear you didn't bump the cable,
it moved on its own.
You thought you put down your coffee cup right here, and now it's over there.
It moved.
Point is, this could be a lot to keep track of, so develop a consistent system and you'll
be fine.
This chapter is a bit of an overview.
Again, thank you all for sticking with us so far.
We hope this has been informative and worthwhile.
We're nerds, so we thank you for humoring us and allowing us to indulge in our nerd
interests.
I touched on this very briefly, but here again are the minimum and recommended system requirements
for running Wirecast on both Macs and PCs, and here's a full list of equipment we use
for webcasting.
As for internet requirements, you'll want to preferably be on a wired connection with
static IP as opposed to a dynamic IP, if possible, and have a dedicated amount of
bandwidth that you're not having to share with everyone else at your conference or office.
On a dedicated line, if you have 10 megabits per second, you'll always have at least that,
whereas on a shared connection, that 10 megabits per second gets split up among all users and
devices.
If you're unsure about what you have, you can contact your IT manager or internet service
provider and have them help you if you're running into issues of not having a consistent
upload speed, or you can contact us and we can help you to troubleshoot.
You'll also want to make sure that ports 1935 and 80 are unblocked on your firewall, as
those allow RTMP protocols to send and receive data from your broadcasting laptop to our
media server.
If you ever get an error while broadcasting that says something to the effect of RTMP
destination cannot be found, it's very likely that a port has been blocked, or the wrong
address has been entered in your output destination, or there's a dip in your connectivity and
the link to our server needs to be reestablished.
With that, we'd also like to explain a rule of thumb when it comes to upload speed and
broadcast settings.
So here it is.
I'll try to put this in the simplest, most basic terms that I can.
Your upload speed is going to directly affect the quality of the broadcast you're able to
stream out.
If you go into the output settings in Wirecast and you set the encoding quality to 720p with
a video bitrate of 2 megabits per second, you are streaming out at 2 megabits per second,
and you would better have at least 2 megabits per second as your upload speed.
We suggest raising that threshold and giving yourself a higher ceiling, though, when it
comes to your upload speed and your output quality, since they are directly proportional.
If you're streaming out at 2 megabits per second, it's best to be on a connection with
5 to 10 times that amount of upload speed, so about 10 to 20 megabits per second.
If you only have a dedicated amount of 5 megabits per second upload speed, maybe drop your encoding
quality to 1 megabit per second.
Finding a happy medium is key, where you can stream a quality broadcast without having
to run into issues of latency, lag, and lost connections.
Don't be confused with missed connections, something different entirely.
Keep in mind that what you're pushing out is also affecting what your audience is pulling
down.
If they're on a connection that gives them at least 2 megabits per second down, they
should be fine.
Here are some other suggestions made by popular media streaming providers.
They recommend about an average of 4 megabits per second down for standard definition videos
at 720p.
For higher definition, that number goes up.
Most of these providers also use performance-enhancing techniques when slower speeds are encountered.
Some have added local caching of videos around the US in order to compensate for this issue.
Adaptive bitrate streaming is another feature that tempers the quality of the stream being
delivered to your device based on your download speed.
So if you're trying to stream a video in high definition, you're connected to public Wi-Fi
or using your wireless provider's 3G bandwidth for data, and it's just not happening, adaptive
bitrate will drop you down to a standard or a lower quality stream to reduce the amount
of buffering.
InReach is in the process of migrating our Learning Center viewer to a platform that
offers this as a standard feature, so be aware that this will be an improvement for you and
your learners in 2019.
Hopefully by now, you're coming away from this webinar not feeling too overwhelmed,
but perhaps a little bit wiser when it comes to running your webcast without issue.
Your worries have no doubt vanished, and as we hoped to set out to do, you know what to
do if shit hits the fan.
We ran down the requiem of requirements and filled you in on what's up with the upload
and download of internet connection speeds, but no matter how many webcasts you run and
no matter how often you run them, it's always best to be prepared no matter what circumstances
you may find yourself in, whether it's your office, some hotel, or who knows, the upside
down where shit gets real weird and nothing is normal.
You can rest assured that InReach has your back, and if you ever run into a problem that
you cannot solve on your own, do some research or please contact us and we'll do everything
we can to slay the beasts and monsters and shit.
Until next time, this is Kevin and Sam signing off.
Peace.
Oh, and if you have any questions, please feel free to direct them towards my co-presenter
Sam.
Now.
Thank you.
